Finished up The Last Lecture, an honestly great read that I recommend to those who still like to dream well into their adulthood. 

In Ch. 23, "I'm on My Honeymoon, But If You Need Me...", he gives some bolded tidbits of advice I'll list here so I can reference myself later:

Time must be explicitly managed, like money.
You can always change your plan, but only if you have one.
Ask yourself, Are you spending your time on the right things?
Develop a good filing system.
Rethink the telephone. (This logic for this one is more or less try to waste as little time on class as possible, less applicable today for myself at least)
Delegate (Many tasks can be handled by others no matter the experience)
Take a time out (Rest when necessary and prioritize it)

Here is the 2nd half of things from the book I took note of, the first of which is the very last line in that above chatper:
p.111   Time is all you have. And you may find one day that you have less than you think.

Ch.24 - A Recovering Jerk
p.112   It is an accepted cliche in education that the #1 goal of teachers should be to help students learn how to learn ... But in my mind ... I wanted to help students learn how to judge themselves. Did they recognize their true abilities? ... have a sense of their own flaws? Were they realistic about how others viewed them? ... The only way any of us can improve ... is if we develop a real ability to assess ourselves. If we can't accurately do that, how can we tell if we're getting better or worse?

Ch.25 - Training a Jedi
p.118   "I know you're smart. But everyone here is smart. Smart isn't enough. The kind of people I want on my research team are those who will help everyone else feel happy to be here."

Ch.28 - Dream Big
p.133   Give yourself permission to dream. Fuel your kids' dreams, too. Once in a while, that might even mean letting them stay up past their bedtimes.

Ch.29 - Earnest Is Better Than Hip
p.133   I'll take an earnest person over a hip person every time, because hip is short-term. Earnest is long-term. Earnestness is highly underestimated. It comes from the core, while hip is trying to impress you with the surface. ... I have more respect for the earnest guy who does something that can last for generations, and that hip people feel the need to parody.

Ch.32 - Don't Complain, Just Work Harder
p.138   I always believed that if you took one-tenth the energy you put into complaining and applied it to solving the problem, you'd be surprised by how well things can turn out.

Ch.34 - Don't Obsess Over What People Think
p.141   I've found that a substantial fraction of many people's days is spent worying about what others think of them. If nobody ever worried about what was in other people's heads, we'd all be 33 percent more effective in our lives and on our jobs. ... I used to tell anyone who worked in my research group: "You don't ever have to worry about what I'm thinking. Good or bad, I'll let you know what's in my head." ... I was able to reassuure people: "If I haven't said anything, you have nothing to worry about." 

Ch.36 - Look for the Best in Everybody
p.145   "If you wait long enough, people will suprise and impress you." ... sometimes this took great patience - even years. "But in the end, people will show you their good side. Almost everybody has a good side. Just keep waiting. It will come out."

Ch.38 - If at First You Don't Succeed ...
p.147   Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity. - Seneca
        Whether you think you can or can't, you're right.

Ch.39 - Be the First Penguin
p.148   Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted. ... failure is not just acceptable, it's often essential.
        when penguins are about to jump into water that might contain predators, somebody's got to be the first penguin.
        Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted. And experience is often the most valuable thing you have to offer.

Ch.43 - The Friday Night Solution
p.156   "It's pretty simple. Call me any Friday night in my office at ten o'clock and I'll tell you."
        A lot of people want a shortcut. I find the best shortcut is the long way, whic his basically two words: work hard.

Ch.44 - Show Gratitude
p.158   "Go out and do for others what somebody did for you."

Ch.47 - A Bad Apology Is Worse Than No Apology
p.161   Apologies are not pass/fail. ... any performance lower than an A really doesn't cut it.

Ch.56 - Make a Decision - Tigger or Eeyore
p.182   I promise you. I could pack a lot of fun into those thirty years. But if that's not to be, then I'll just pack fun into whatever time I do have.

Ch.62 - The Dreams Will Come to You
p.205   "It's not about how to achieve your dreams. It's about how to lead your life. If you lead your life the right way, the karma will take care of itself. The dreams will come to you."
