Touching back on the topic of internalizing and true learning of something, I think a lot of people would agree that having a solid foundation lends to a more effective understanding of concepts that build off those foundations. In math, you do this with drills and exercises, doing many problems to develop an inherent understanding that goes beyond skin deep. What is the equivalent for basically every other area you can learn in? To properly retain information, you have to think through what you encounter, molding it into your own understanding. It's like summarizing something you read, compared to copying down points verbatim, and is a good habit that I personally did not employ nearly enough in the past. 
Now consider how one applies this to programming? In this case, you can actually employ the repetition formula to some extent; using for loops a million times, over multiple languages, it becomes second nature. This is a necessary step, especially for simpler topics, but I also believe that the higher-level concepts (including in mathematics) can employ the summarizing type of thinking. This is something that inherently seems to be more and more usable the more foundation you have, as you can pull from more different areas that connect novel ideas with what you already know.
An example of something in which you can employ all of those methods are the ever-so-persistent data structures and algorithms. You both want to have a good understanding of the applications and uses, on top of how to actually implement a given algorithm or data structure. I truly believe the best way to do so is to apply all of those techniques. Combining and mixing both approaches, I would do the following to ingrain these concepts:
1. Review the problems the pattern in, then think about another example where it could be applied, especially in a project I currently have progress in.
2. Look for other problems where I have to implement it from scratch and then apply it.

Another thing I was looking to learn was the GPU pipeline, and I have some resources I've decided to look into; some of the next posts will likely involve summarizing them for my own benefit and reference.
One last thought I had on this topic was that of just syntax. How much does this really apply to this extreme? For example, remembering syntax and being able to pull from it without looking up documentation essentially requires memorization one way or another, but is it really worth dedicating the mental stack when you are passively learning these things as you use them enough to warrant so? I'm not sure, but for completely brand new syntax or APIs maybe some attention is worthwhile to create that foundation.
