    Today (a few days actually, did not finish writing this immediately) on my daily walk I was listening to a video on music theory (highly recommend 8-bit Music Theory if you've played games anywhere from the early 90s to late 2000s), specifically on leitmotifs. In the video he's discussing, who would have guessed, music theory, and more specifically how a simple 3 note base can be transformed through variations and additions to repeatedly reference the core theme, using that same base in various contexts and situations accordingly while keeping the main idea recognizable. He goes on to talk about harmony, and more, but that's not what my mind strayed to as I listened to his very in-depth explanations (at least for someone with very little music theory exposure like myself).
    While certainly, a youtube video has a lot of work and preparation put behind it, it still struck me how could one hope to become so familiar with these concepts you could just use them so naturally immediately after listening to a song a few times. What I'm referring to is internalizing. Internalizing is true learning, when something becomes so inherent to your brain that it's almost as natural as breathing. A famous boxing manga, Hajime no Ippo, often shows fighters who, with all their stamina exhausted and nothing but willpower left to keep them going, falling back on fundamentals pounded into them due to repeated training. There are some who go as far as being unconscious, yet throwing precise punches in vital areas that help them swing the odds back in their favor eventually. This is an extreme (and a slight bit unrealistic though still based on reality) example, and has to do with muscle memory, but the brain is also a muscle and can develop similarly.
    Anyone trying to become proficient at something should strive to internalize; many of us have internalized basic arithmetic, either due to necessity or enough exposure. As someone who enjoys learning new things often, I similarly encounter the following problem often: how do I internalize the concepts I need to know as quickly as possible. I still struggle with this when programming, and found teaching was a great way of doing so. Personally, I don't know if I can internalize something without repeatedly bashing my head into it, but I do believe there are things that help.
    Having a full understanding of a concept really helps, but achieving that can be rather difficult. After all, how are you supposed to know when you really understand something you had little to no prior understanding of? I believe this is a skill you can learn and improve, but I'm still exploring myself. One thing I've considered is mapping as many concepts, finding as many patterns between things, as possible. But applying this feels difficult to do consciously.
