I was reading a book, The Last Lecture by Randy Pausch, coincidentally enough a CS professor, who lived a very interesting life. 
I'm about halfway through, and he's describing how he met and eventually married his wife around the age of 40, with the prior context of his passing due to pancreatic cancer less than a decade later. The idiom "Live like tomorrow is your last" comes to mind at this point. My own father passed due to colon cancer somewhat early, though not quite comparable, but as a selfish human being I naturally considered my own future. However, I always had a problem with this idiom; if you only have a day left the average Joe is spending it quite irresponsibly. Of course, Randy's lecture is a sort of great paragon of the effective use of remaining time, but being more specific he still had a few years at least. It made me wonder, what is the ideal amount of time to plan ahead for? 10 years sounded good to me personally, but naturally someone in Randy's position is living like he's on a bullet train to the end. I really think it depends on where you are in life yourself, your experience and maturity, etc. No one can really determine this number but you. What do you want to accomplish, what do would you prioritize? What matters the most to you? A lot of this might be just plain obvious, but in the current day and age with the overwhelming abundance of trash and noise that gets in the way on top of what we already have on our plate, I think it's easy to lose sight of something so simple. For me, I still think a decade is a good amount of time. Enough time to properly build up to greater goals and accomplish them, and I have quite a bucket list of those. I'm still reading through this co-authored book, but I'll throw some of my favorite quotes/sections:

I Never made It to the NFL

p37 "When you see yourself doing something badly and nobody's bothering to tell you anymore, that's a bad place to me. You may not want to hear it, but your critics are often the ones telling you they still love you and care about you, and want to make you better."

A Skill Set Called Leadership
p45:    "...a man who knew what he didn't know, was perfectly willing to admit it, and didn't want to leave until he understood."

p48:    "Tenacity is a virtue, but it's not always crucial for everyone to observe how hard you work at something."

The Park Is Open Until 8 p.m.

p60-63 - really this whole part to the end, but here is the end paraphrased:
"I had told her, 'I just want you to know that it feels great to be alive, and to be here today, alive with you. Whatever news we get about the scans, I'm not going to die when we hear it. I won't die the next day, or the day after that, or the day after that. So today, right now, well this is a wonderful day. And I want you to know how much I'm enjoying it.' ... I knew then. That's the way the rest of my life would need to lived." 
